Seeny: So basically, this is a restart or a re-establishment of API Working Group, which used to run probably one year back. It had to stop due to several reasons. The first was there was a major ask from a US regulator on API stuff and all the resources were diverted there, which left kind of a gap in the space. And the second was mainly reorg, where we are still waiting for a more concrete structure. And there was not clarity where this working group and its responsibilities would sit. I think one year down the line, we have some more clarity. And I think it is now driven by regulatory actions as well to keep it going. Obviously, there has being during this time because we have not met or this working group is not there. operational, there has been a lag in refreshing the standards or making any changes to the standards related to APIs and associated patterns. Having said that, I think over the last one year, we have made some good progress with respect to the tooling and the processes, mainly in the US space. They are there. I won't say they are best in class or they are well-matured. They are evolving. But I think it's a good start. So basically, just for folks who are not part of US API MRA, who are new to this, I would start with introduction of myself. I'm James. I think gradually over multiple sessions, we would know each other more. And we would know the participants from all the different areas. But the main agenda today is to set the scene, basically discuss what initiate goals or long-term goals. And how... Basically, we plan to execute this. What we have or we plan to communicate even to the regulator. Right? And so where this working group sits, what are its responsibilities, and then get on to some logistics about how would you raise sort of an agenda item or an item for discussion here, how it will... What it needs and basically what are the current pain points or the gaps. Then we will... You see in your area, right? When you see developers or engineers come to do with respect to queries related to API standards, patterns or tooling. I think we'll start with standards first because that's a main priority at the moment. But gradually, this working group now has James as well who is a sort of standards and of standards and controls API tooling lead within CTO platforms. So APIX as a suite sits within James, which includes inventory and certain other tooling like CAGE and I think a few more which are being worked upon like APIX scan and so on. So very quickly to introduce myself, I was part of application architecture tech domain within strategic services three years back when I joined HSBC and that particular area is no more, it has been dissolved, the resources or the team has now moved on to various areas in the current organization structure. I am now part of the DevOps or the developer platform for architecture where this API working group sits and hence its sponsor is Duncan, who is my manager. And I have been for the last almost one and a half year have been involved in the API MRA which is a regulatory program mainly driven by certain actions of the organization. So many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many many we'll come to the outcomes and the whole responsibilities in a bit but before that i think this time so last time when i used to host this i was alone or i would say i was the only host we now have a co-chair who is james so i would let james introduce himself very briefly okay thanks um yes so overseas we both agreed that obviously we co-chairs um it makes it

James: easier if somebody's out of the office or something like that so so that's the reason behind it it's also a good combination of architecture and engineering so i sit on the engineering side of things um within the devx engineering overseeing the you know devx within devx and overseeing the the engineering teams um my official title is api

Unknown: standards

James: lead um i know you know some of you we know quite well from the mra um you know others it would be good to get to know each other as we go forward um you know i've been with hsbc for about four months now but this is my second time um i have had a two-year stint in hong kong about a decade to come

Seeny: as well so yeah all right thanks james so um i would i would have loved to uh sort of go around the table and have a very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very that have introductions done, but I think that won't be a very good use of time. Probably we would forget each other rather than that. I think we'll build that sort of repo and introductions, connections as we go on, probably with the sessions gradually over the next few sessions. So I would not get into that. Very quickly, let me share my screen. So there are a few things before we get into the main sort of topics and the pain points or things that you would like to see changed with respect to the mainly API standards for now. I think it would be good to quickly cover for people who haven't gone through this or haven't seen this. So let me share my screen. Why are we here? So I think this is available on the invite, this particular page. It's sort of a DOR. And I think I want to stress mainly on the key outcomes from this whole working group and the process because sometimes certain people are not aware of other things that go on after we endorse something or we agree on something on this particular forum. So I think first I'll go to the key outcomes, right, because they are important. So I think one of the key responsibility of this working group would be to produce clear, usable, implementable standards, right, API standards now. This is very crucial and it's required from a regulatory perspective as well. It's not just U.S. regulator. I think recently there has been RBI audit in India and similar audits sort of in different regions. And I think one of the key or the main things they want to see is what are our standards, how are we ensuring compliance to those standards. And I think it's important to make sure that the standards are good enough, right, and compliance to those standards. So I think it becomes very important for us to maintain this. We'll come in the process, the flow in a bit. But then I think standards by themselves sometimes are not good enough, right. It needs supporting patterns as well, right. And this is not valid in all cases, but in some cases need might arise, right. So I think this particular working group does have that as well in scope as and when it's required, as and when we think as a group that it's needed. I think the other important aspect that James would probably drive would be API tooling. I'll come to a very high-level view of what we have in terms of the tools that we have. The central tooling is state at the moment. But I think it's evolving, right. So we have established some tools. They are in place today. Some are out of date. Some are evolving. Some are being very aggressively worked upon, right. So I think we would, and it won't be fair if we don't bring those topics and the tooling sort of improvements or to this group and seek feedback, right, from the representatives of various areas. So this would be done. I think another would be as we change the standards, right, some of our tooling are really to ensure compliance to the assessment. And we are working on the automated tooling as well, right. Like I said, the automated bit is evolving at the moment. What we have is very manual, very rudimentary. So I think this is more to do with if we change the standards, there are major changes to the standards, right. Basically, James and myself go back to those teams that work on this tooling and produce roadmaps, right. So we would bring that as well to the table, to this forum so that everyone is aware when certain things are going to be available with respect to tooling. Because just making standards and changing standards is not going to help unless they are seen, right, and the effects is sort of implemented in various areas. And last is I think the API tooling FSA. It sits within the DevEx or developer platform. Right. So it's a very complex architecture FSA at the moment to be worked upon. So as and when there will be revisions to this, we will bring that to this forum as well. So these are the main things that we plan to discuss in this forum. If you think there is anything else you would like to see or you think anything is missing, I think please feel free to raise it.

John: Angelic AI. Yeah. Angelic AI. And how that impacts API standards.

Daniel: Approval based upon the Angelic AI.

John: Yes, absolutely. Service account standards. Use of HashiCorp and secrets management across platforms. So what secrets management should be deployed. And also traceability and ownership for deployment of any updates that are coming. And the appropriate testing. Code scans, FOSS, all of that lovely stuff. So cyber first, et cetera.

Seeny: Right. I think some of that sits in other spaces. We do have security standards and security working groups. Partly probably taking care of security. Partly probably taking care of certain aspects like code scans, cyber flows. It sits within the developer platforms. Some of this. I think the secrets management is related to CTO platforms. I completely agree with you on AI and how it impacts the standards. That's part of this. Mainly I think the first point. How to implement those standards. I think part of the vision is to how to make it more easier to implement and more granular so that AI skills can interpret it in the way that we want it. Right. And not just come up with some very high level, vague, abstract standards which AI or any tool.

John: There's a lot of scope of hallucinations there. Well, I think what you've got to consider is one. There's a lot of guardrails around individual language choice, package choice and the individual prompts that you put into the AI at the beginning to ensure that appropriate test cases, et cetera, are deployed whenever AI doesn't work. But also some quality of those individual test cases to make sure that the data can be appropriately tested as part of any work that it's doing. The code scans.

Unknown: Right.

John: The code scanning is a prereq as is vulnerability scanning. Now, if we're saying that vulnerability scanning is outside the scope of this work, then I've got a problem with it. It should be. We've got to protect the organization.

Seeny: I mean, it's outside scope of API because if it's directly related to API, yes, all topics API related are welcome. But if it's more general, more broader than that, then I think it's outside the scope of API. And then I think it's outside the scope of this. Not to say that it shouldn't be taken care of, but I can find the right working group where these things are discussed and pass it on to you. But otherwise, I think if we try to boil the ocean, we will not be able to do the things that we want to do. Accept it.

John: Accept it. Yeah. Okay. I'm going to yield for the moment. That's fine. Because we've got no question.

Seeny: I have noted down all the points you raised. And I'll leave it at that. Okay. Thank you. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great.

John: Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. Well, great. approval into APIX and APIG, then as part of a prerequisite before it goes into APIX and APIG, you should have done your FOSS, you should have done your LOM, you should have done your security patterns.

Seeny: The SDNC flow. Yes, yes, perfectly, yes.

John: Okay, so, you know, while my acceptance scope of this forum might be narrow from a certain point of view, it still has to take in a form. I am completely with you, and I think I'm glad that the current organization, this specific

Seeny: feedback and points that we are raising, right, they all sit in my words. So, the platforms, I think James gradually reports to Amit Chadha, who is the head of standards and controls, and all these aspects that you have mentioned, except for the secrets, I believe that's going to platform part. The scans, the pipelines. Yes. And the standards around them, the sequence in which everything flows, where it's been reported, traced, all that sits within his words. So, it sits within our wider world. So, yeah, completely take that feedback on, yeah. Sneha, I see your hand is up.

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, thanks, Sini. Just, Sini, since we were talking about the requirement part of it, right, one of our or two of our requirements do talk about the requirement. Correct? Correct. Correct. I think for now, while you're asking the teams to go for observability, not all of this information is very well available even with these observability tools. I think there is no direct linkage of the apps. You may have the host details and all, but there are still some challenges. So in order to ensure that from the design perspective, DEMOV is able to actually help and automate these two requirements bank-wide. There are some additional data points that we would like to capture as part of the SDLC toolkit, so that we can have a friendly do the two requirements. Which is registering data edition as well as knowing your consumer a bit appropriately. So there were some discussions around it and I picked this up with Amit. And he mentioned that probably once the US one is done, we will kick start. So I wanted to know if there is any book of work where we can raise it. So it's like for us to implement that design in our control and help you with those two standards for DEMOV. We will also need some extra bit that needs to be enforced. So where can we pick up this conversation? Or at least I can log that in so that come September, that's what I think Amit mentioned, we'll be in a position to pick up the add-on requirements on what needs to go into it as a prerequisite. I think this is the right forum to be in if we have some high level

Seeny: view on requirements, I would suggest if you could document those and create from a team perspective. Because this is related to the API constructors, right? It's item 5.

John: It's item 5 from the read across, right?

Seeny: It's item 5 from the read across, yeah. This is the right forum and I believe James, could this be added to the backlog? I believe it's related to the inventory because inventory is planning to hold all this data in the future, right? It's one of the inventory requirements as well if I'm not wrong.

James: Correct, yeah. So I'd have to look at the exact requirement but I believe we've already captured this as part of the 3D cross. But let's just make sure, understand written down and then I'll just cross reference with what the requirements should look like. But it does sound like something that's...

John: But this is related to item 5 and CSDM and also within the ITSO responsibilities or registration of accounts against the service. You need to also articulate the interfaces, APIs within scope of the interfaces within CSDM. The individual accounts that access your system are covered under item 5. And under item 5 any service account should be linked to an owner. That owner should be related to your service. The individual APIs should be related under CSDM against their business application, application instance reference. And also you should have a catalogue of the individual accesses and services that are accessing your API. That's part of your ITSO responsibilities. For your service. So if you don't know who your consumers are, you're not meeting the ITSO responsibilities. Yes?

SPEAKER_03: Yeah, so an enhancement to that, what we have been looking at is how can we actually automate this bit. Because right now the responsibility is with ITSO which has been a historical challenge for our follow up controls. Which is like item registers it but our entire view depends on that registration. And if that is not done, the whole linkage is kind of missed out. And that has been a challenge as well as audit findings on multiple occasions for our control. And as far of that we were trying to look at what are the options around having this bit automated. Which means registering of the integration to be automated potentially via manifest. And also about actually evidencing the integrity bit. Well I think it's true.

John: Well it's two parts to it. So I've talked about the CSDN, I've talked about IDAM5, I've talked about the service account registration. There's also the Log2M requirements which again is under service responsibility. For logging and monitoring. As part of the logging and monitoring requirements there is the stipulation that you know who is accessing your service. That should be serviced through Splunk.

Unknown: As the most common tool or an appropriate tool.

John: Which can do all of your monitoring. The other one is AppDynamics. Again this is all down to ITSR responsibility, design, TDDA signing off and SECARC signing off. So the controls are there. Not everybody is doing them.

SPEAKER_03: Yes and that is what we are trying to do in terms of control. That how can we have the logs. Which help detect and then an inferred interface kind of setup. Wherein the information that then get into the manifest and from manifest where the relapse rounded then ends up in service now. So it's like automation of the registration which ITSO at times are doing and at times they are not. And that bit is what we wanted to see how we can enhance.

John: From a standards perspective if you look at the individual way that Kong is logging stuff through its Splunk. It is not separate, not fit for purpose. The individual credential mechanisms are not in there and doesn't allow you to do individual reporting based upon API usage. Dynamics doesn't have enough of a focus on it. So there are gaps there. And as an ITSO myself I have to make sure that I have those gaps filled. To fulfill the log2m requirements and the IDAM5 requirements. I also have to do a recertification of all of the API usage. Which is a pain. Because I have got 220 consumers. Yeah.

Seeny: So I think John what you are saying is at the moment there are certain controls and manual processes in place to ensure this. And I think where Sneha is coming from is how to automate and make it more easier for ITSOs.

John: My question from a demove perspective is what is the subject of the demove. Because. If it is a case of James moving from department A to department B. Sorry James, biggie on you. Then from an API perspective I am not sure how the scope works there. Because that is an application centric demove control. If it is a case of service moves from Hong Kong to UK. Yeah. That is a different question. So where the demove control applies. Is more poignant as a question. Okay.

SPEAKER_03: So I think yeah. So demove control applicability anyways is between. So it basically applies between every different application services between which the data moves via API. So BAID to BAID that is how the applicability is. And it is kind of the continuity of the consumers. Yeah. Okay.

John: So you are talking about databases and you are talking about the interface connection. Which goes back to CSDM and the register and the. And also. It goes back to CSDM and the interfaces that are held within CSDM and ODS. Yes.

SPEAKER_03: Yes. And the interfaces as well as integrations. So it is both. And the only. The whole point is while we are trying to capture the integrations, details and knowing your consumers. Because they are not. They are not the ones that ultimately gets registered as an integration. Which is then a starting point for data movement. Right. And what we have been trying to solve is what if the data integration is missing. What is it that we can do in terms of logging. I think we have been exploring something on Argus. We have been trying to look at the gateways that we perceive. If you know external APIs. Do we have enough data points to kind of recognize these details and then capture them. So that that can. Then we have an entire workflow in data movement which triggers this exercise from the logs in Argus and picks up and informs IDSO. From the logs it looks like you have a movement from A to B. Please register the integration. But that would be going forward automated where we will directly integrate it into the manifest. Which manifest via DLAS will push it. So what. So we will basically automate that cycle of integration registration. That is. The challenge that you have got.

John: This is a huge challenge by the way. Service accounts traditionally from a line of controls perspective. At least from an AD and ADLDS perspective. Are not linked to services. They are linked to people. And once you start using API secrets and SSH keys. It works. They are not even really. If the store didn't actually go up against a namespace. They were a big problem. They were at least linked to an EIM service. I am one of the people who made sure of that. But you have still got a problem there. Yeah. So. To say this is a big onion and a difficult one to peel. Is an understatement. Yeah. Yeah.

SPEAKER_03: So I think there were again. This is the first bit. Right. Again there was a second bit on why we are capturing this. Can we add some extra mandates around the logging. Because if you look one of the challenges you rightly said. Right. You may know probably the nodes, the endpoints. But literally what application is it tied to. When it comes to those APIs. This process APIs. It becomes difficult. And that is where we are trying to see if there are some additional data points as part of requirement. If we have. Can that be incorporated within the process. Right. Within the APIG as a control requirement. Where we can add in the extra bit that IDSO can supplement. Which will then probably help us. I think what you are saying Sneha would be.

Seeny: The solution might. Use. Sort of we need a logging standard basically. To capture mandate. Logging of certain data points. For all APIs. Right. Which can be. Scanned for the purpose. That is. Yeah. So that is what we are looking for.

John: Yeah. But I think there is two bits that I would like to make sure that we articulate here. Creating a centralized tool to all of this will end in tears. Definitely. Creating a standard that people have to meet. Is more likely a hitable target. So what I would recommend here is being able to say. That as. An extension of the log 2 M requirements. For APIs. That you must be able to say. What services are integrated to a BTP perspective. What services are integrated with you.

Seeny: And which endpoints they are hitting.

John: And what data types they are hitting. If you can hit that on the head. Then you are almost there. I would be very cautious around getting anywhere near users. Because that is a completely different challenge. I think you can hit the services on the head. Then you can go well those services should be logging their own users. And therefore we will understand what they are doing. And then you can go back to the services and say. Well you have got a user population of. 300 people. You are using these APIs from your service accounts. What are you doing with the data? Yeah. Yeah. So. Okay.

Unknown: What.

SPEAKER_03: I agree.

Unknown: I agree the standards need to be there.

John: Don't do it to a centralized tool. It looks like yeah. Standards will help. Obviously I think multiple times during this year. There has been questions on logging standards for API. Which is not there at the moment. So. I think.

Seeny: I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. I think. What I would ask you to do is maybe this might sound a bit painful but it's not too time consuming. Please use this button at this top right. It will take you to a service test where we have an item on raise a working group or jeta item. This will help us track it and automatically reflect it in certain areas. We don't want to create a big list on confidence where we don't have any tracking. Then it might just get lost. If you could do this with all the information that you have, I think that will help us keep it in focus during our sessions. We can gradually. Get it concluded. Now I know Ashley you have been patiently waiting. I'll just take one more minute. I think once you raise that particular ticket, you can see it in this topics area as well. What is pending review? What's going on in progress? It's up to us to decide as a group what are the priorities and what we want to discuss first. If your team of control is higher priority, we can bring that. It's ready. We can bring it in the discussion. Get it reviewed. We can do that. Go to the next stage. Ashley, if you could raise your question.

SPEAKER_05: From what I understand, API security standards is part of this. What about API security patterns? API security patterns are not part of this particular.

Seeny: Well being a great idea. uh unfortunately i think there has been they have been moved to security architecture working group which is led by max co the ownership has been moved to max copes world uh obviously we have an interest in it so if there are changes to the security pattern we would bring that group here to present the changes so that we are up to date and we are one of the people giving our feedback on it but yeah that's a good question actually you pointed it out right although is it backs apis it's not part of this particular working group where we decide what is changing it's more about security folks discussing and deciding what is changing there

SPEAKER_05: teams have a have a have a query on apis securities so do they bring it to this group or they

Seeny: can be brought here right uh if it's uh because it's not just so if we look at our standards right uh there are few others as well which are not probably sitting even in that they don't have patterns associated so they don't sit uh in that working group as well course uh certain sensitive data and so on uh i think as a question good to bring it here first but i think it's a good question so i think it's a good question and i think it's a good question and i think it's a good question uh and if it's very specific to uh the i think if it's a question maybe we can address it if it's a change in the pattern uh then probably we need to collaborate with max folks to get that change uh done or certain uh queries if they are uh leading to a change and get those queries addressed so yeah this would be the first uh point actually to answer your question apologies it's not very clear workflow uh but uh i think questions can anytime be brought to this working group which are api it is better of whether it's secure

Unknown: sorry that's it just sorry sorry actually that's it just thinking you know timing for other things

James: um sanjay anything from us you've got your hand raised patiently as well

SPEAKER_06: i know i think my question is like i mean we're left with actually this question but i think prior to we going deep collecting the feedback or the backlog of what to lean and standards uh i was just thinking like earlier we were collaborating with the other forums like cma has rightly mentioned api security working group then external standards through uh then uh whenever we need some expertise from cyber we used to contact them so i was just trying to visualize how this is going to cover in this entire forum because i also simply requisite is app aig so

SPEAKER_03: what exactly we can expect from this forum yeah let's say i have to do some consultation and

SPEAKER_06: could be random some of the use cases that we are not aware of right now so what is the starting point should this forum is the right or should we go back to app as is sorry yes

Seeny: great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great myself or James because there is some need in the tooling where the standard is not helping, the standard is not specific and needs to be more precise. Or it could be our annual review cycle where we review those standards. If they are good, no changes required, we are great. But if there are major changes or gaps at the moment, we go over them and we address them, right? So it could be me, it could be James, it could be annual, just the timing. It could be the BGI champions. For example, Sneha here is trying to make, I think, improve on the demo, the way demo works today. And it has the API aspects in it, right? And I think like she rightly pointed out, maybe one of the solutions is to update the logging, right? And that needs to be done. So I think this is the standard. So similarly, Sanjay, there are repeated queries from your area, right? On certain standards. Maybe you think that there is a need to change that standard, right? So you can bring it here. Now this is all driven by standards. It's not, so if we think there is a missing standard, there is the need for a new standard, there is need for change to an existing standard, all those would be, Or do you think that a certain standard is no more required, it's outdated? All such suggestions need to be brought to this working group, right? Now, standards is the main thing we are going to manage here. That's going to be our first priority, right? Now, to implement a standard, right, if there needs to be a pattern supporting it, or there are a few patterns, right? So, for example, say I'm taking this example of authentication, but here in case of authentication, the pattern sits within the security working group, but it has some overlap, right? So, we are sort of the consumers of those patterns, right? And if we see something is missing, right, you can bring it to this working group, right? We can work from this working group with collaboration with the security working group. We can work from this working group with collaboration with the security working group to address that gap, right? Because it is related to our standards. It has kind of sort of impact on our standards if those patterns are not fit for purpose. So, that's the main scope. Now, once we all review the proposal, we come up with the proposal, we agree on it, right? What is the power of this working group? As a group, we can only endorse. So, our power is to endorse a particular proposal or change to the standards. And if there is a pattern which needs to be created or changed, there is an existing pattern which is related to a standard and that needs changing, we can, we have that sort of power to endorse it. Now, the next step after we endorse it, right? Here the device working group. So, these are the platform platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being a platform a being it's a bit more a level above what we decide right now there the proposal that we have entered course will go through review another set of review i think platform erg has a bit more representation from security architecture data architecture and so on and they also review it from that lens and generally uh the proposal get approved if there are some major issues or gaps or questions then the proposal might not get approved and it might send back to us with the feedback right which we then need to work upon now platform aerg again it approves or it sort of it can uh not approve but once it approves right the things go to the next level which is tdta which is generally for noting right now tdda includes gcb3 and sort of above aware at a very kind of a senior sort of forum where the leadership team then it doesn't review but they they become aware that this change has come through right so that they can do what is needed to make sure it's implemented and track it so i think that's that's the flow so although our discussion will end here there will be some next steps after that which will be taken care of by myself and james and if if there are negative sort of results or outcomes from those forums they will be brought back to this forum i hope this helps address some of the queries on the scope and the high level process any questions on this bit before i go to the next because there is slightly more i would say steps involved in making it or realizing or implementing the standard after

SPEAKER_06: these things happen i think makes sense now i mean just to worry i'm not sure how long it will take to complete this cycle right until you start from there and because there are multiple forums so each forum has their slm lead time to present come back all this so i'm not sure how efficient it would be at the moment because you are not i think it's already in the process so api

Seeny: working group is the only thing or i would say api working group is one of the working group which is restarting but there are this is already existing so this process is already existing it is how it used to happen even though it's not a process it's already existing it is how it used to happen even before so from a working group if something is endorsed it would go to platform aerg which runs on weekly basis now so i think the next week uh it can immediately go to uh platform aerg because we generally would meet on wednesday and platforms aerg run on tuesdays so uh we would have that week to get it whatever the ticket moved right and this is just for voting so i think from here to here we are going to be able to get it done and we will be able to get it done in the next week or at the next two weeks or at the max two weeks just in case if something is a miss or people are out or

SPEAKER_06: so on so it shouldn't take a lot of time is what i'm trying to say thank you the reason i was asking because sometimes we are not very clear that what exactly we are going to present but people just come to us for consultation and some direction so just for getting the consultation or very good take an infinite five minutes no no no sorry

Seeny: doesn't make any sense right so

SPEAKER_06: no no so consultation and direction is something which you can reach out

Seeny: to maybe myself and james as standards owner at any time and if we think right that that consultation or queries is basically a gap we don't have answers for it right then it's a topic that probably needs to be brought to the working group to find out the answer right what is the right answer for that so i think that that process the consultation itself should not wait for a week or two weeks to get addressed right a consultation query should not wait for that long so reach out at any time for queries or consultation even i think james is supported by this whole tooling team right who supports questions on toolings but if there are questions on standards ideally i would after our few sessions i would expect this group to be expert on standards because we are creating changing standards so we need to be close to them but if there are further questions and i mean they can reach out or to myself or turkish uh who is my manager at any time if i'm out

SPEAKER_06: thank you thanks yeah no worries i think very quickly i don't want to spend a lot of time but

Seeny: once the standards changes get approved and some major changes right uh to the standards i think uh this all triggers so uh just for your information because uh this group won't be part of all this but it's good to be aware right so those standard changes now have this workflow where obviously that's why james is one of the uh co-chair here because i think most of this work will be led by james and his team but those approved standards will then be fed into the work flow standards will then be fed into the work flow standards will then be fed into the work flow into his team we will have deep dives and analysis sessions with the team on the impact right of those standard on the tooling and training because now we have a clear training as well which is mandated by usmra for at least for now so the training gets changed uh which is again taken care of by james steam along with a training team here being a great platform being a great platform being a great platform being a great platform being a great platform to this group, but this is what will go on in the background once the standard undergoes a major change. So just to be aware of it. Do we have a view of what the standard tooling? And just like we have a view of what standard

SPEAKER_06: side 8085, do we have a view of what tooling? Good that you asked. So this is the FSA that I'm kind of working on at the moment.

Seeny: It's work in progress. Let me go on to another view which is not at the back. So I think within James' world, right, where we have control of the tooling, right, it's mainly this tooling, right? So we don't do that. We don't have control of the comm gateway or some of the other toolings which are not here, right, at this point in time, at the moment. Obviously, comm gateway is within CTO platform so we can collaborate and get things done. But where we own the toolings are, or where James basically owns and his team owns the tooling is obviously the APIX tooling includes APIX. The APIX tooling includes inventory, the scan bid, the APIX, which, you know, sits within IWPP. But I think the collaboration at the moment is owned by James and team, part of the same team as well. And then there are a few other historical tooling like AST, which you would be aware of, the cage, which was owned by Wholesale IT originally. So that sits in James' world. And then we have the A2CW, which sits in platforms, but again, like APIX, James can coordinate the implementation. And then we have our IIDP, which also sits. So at the moment, these are all the tooling that sits within our world. Some of them, I think a couple of them we don't own, but we work closely with those team to implement the changes that we did. So I'll share the link to this FSA once it's finalized so that you can look at it and give your feedback. We'll probably bring to one of this section as well. But yeah, to answer your question, yes, we have a view. We have the view, but we are trying to refine the view over the period of next few years based on various requirements.

Unknown: Now, I think the other important thing is that we have a lot of data.

Seeny: We have a lot of data. I think the other important thing I wanted to quickly ask is obviously I think we have Ashley, Sanjay, I think Darren, Sneha, Sagar, John. I think most of us are aware of the US API MRA program and what was done underneath it and what processes do we have today, which are very US specific and what are the things we are working on. I think you folks are quite familiar with it. Because of your involvement in the program. I think for others, right, I believe there is representation from regional teams. I think mainly MOTA's and there was Major Beam who had joined from Switzerland. So and some other folks who are representing their area but not quite involved in the US API. MRA. If you want a separate session just to be aware, right, of what we did within that API MRA, what we have in terms of today, happy to set up a session. So if you can reach out to me directly because I don't want to waste everyone's time because some of them have been very critically and involved with the program. So that overview won't be helpful. Thank you. I think it is helpful for every participant here. But I think there is a minority of participants who are not close to that program. And, hence, if you want that overview, I am happy to set up one hour with that small group to take over what we did in US API MRA from a process, tooling, and so on, what exists today, right. But if you want to do your own reading, there is a space, group API hub, right, which again is a place where you can do your own reading. So many great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great to other markets. So although the processes exist and they can be rolled out to your market, if there is a need, pressing need, basically I think there is a longer term view of making them more scalable and automated rather than rolling out manual processes in your markets. So but to be aware, you can go through this documentation as well. I think it's very well sort of organized. You have a landing page which you can jump to any sort of phase in that lifecycle, right, of that API. Or you can, if you have a specific topic in mind, you can start here. There are a lot of start here. And I think, sorry, you can see double the amount of links because something is wrong with my confluence. So there isn't so many links. It's half of this number probably. But... You can refer to that here as well. I see Daniel. Do you have a question?

Daniel: Yes, I have a question. Because I'm not sure you got you guys aware that we were exiting Korn by the end of 2027. So I've been working with the teams of the standard. But some of the standard, you know, they rely on the platform, right? So how do we make sure? So that when they are, you know, migrating from Korn to ETNA, that they are not breaking, you know, or how the standard is maintained?

Seeny: I'm glad you asked this question, Daniel. So I think the exit is not definite, at least globally. I'm not sure if this particular messaging is within your area or are you talking about it globally? But lately there has been a struggle. So I think it's a very important strategy. API gateway replacement strategy. We are looking at replacing Korn. I think the contract ends towards the end of 2027. And if we are able to build a product or gateway internally, I think we would be exiting and replacing it. But I think to address your question, right? In terms of any migration, the developer platforms team will work very closely with the CTO platforms team to make sure that we are able to build a product. Thank you. Thank you for the question. I think the application is the key role for the platform team to make sure the standards are embedded into the new implementation. I think that's one of the key roles. So I think it was covered in the slides here where this platform needs platform involves. So that is for those things to be addressed. So, yeah, I don't know if that answered your question or you have some more.

Daniel: No, no. I'm good. I got the news months ago, but since then there is not much information. They are only putting the information on the conference. I've been looking at the conference because that should be an impact to the API teams, especially in Hong Kong. So that's why we want to make sure that the transition is well, along with the API governance and API standards and so on and so forth. So that's what I want to make sure.

Seeny: No, that's a valid point. Thanks. Those discussions are going on, but decision is not taken yet. There needs to be a few more steps before that decision is taken.

John: Okay, thank you.

Seeny: At the moment, Kong is strategy. I see we have about time. So before I take John's question, if someone is dropping, thanks for attending today's session. I think next two weeks I'm not around, but I want Daniel to do a demo of the API standards skills that his team has created. Okay. Okay. ! So I will rely on James to facilitate that next week, hopefully. And when I'm back, I think we can directly dive into certain topics related to changes to API standards. Thanks for joining. John, I see you have a question.

John: Yeah, no, I was just a bit surprised about the Kong side. It would be good to get a view on what's going on there. As long as we still keep talking in job tokens, I don't think we've got a problem, but it would be good. It took us two years to migrate last time.

Seeny: Absolutely. I know what you're saying. I was involved in the migration. Yeah, that decision is not yet taken. There is a consideration of doing that. There is a paper which they are calling API Gateway Strategy, which went through platforms, the ERG.

Unknown: So many people need to try these kinds of analytics. So many people need to try these analytics. So many people need to try these analytics. So many people need to try these analytics.

John: So many people need to try these analytics. So many people need to try these analytics. So many people need to try these analytics.

Unknown: So many people need to try these analytics. So many people need to try these analytics.
